tutorial/01-installation.md, before:

Getting up and running requires just a few steps, but this can be tricky, depending on your platform and current environment. Please follow the directions for your environment.

# All environments

### First, clone the repository
`git clone https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine --depth 1`

### Ensure you are on Node 16 or above
You **must** have Node 16 or above installed.

NVM can be a useful tool for this https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm

Before running the engine, please check `node --version`
If you are using a node version below 16, please update or nothing will work. You will know you are having issues if you try to install at root and are getting dependency errors.

### Docker is your friend
You don't need to use Docker, but it will make your life much easier.
You can get it [here](https://docs.docker.com/).
If you don't wish to use Docker, you will need to setup mariadb and redis on your machine. You can find credentials in `xrengine/scripts/docker-compose.yml`

### Mediasoup is a powerful beast you must tame
The vast majority of people get stuck on the mediasoup installation because it requires C++ source code to be compiled on your machine, which requires node-gyp and python and other dependencies.

*It is extremely important that you refer to these instructions before continuing*
https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### Installing on Windows with WSL2
Note: **You must have WSL2 installed for these instructions to work**

First, open a wsl prompt. Then type these commands:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install build-essential
npm install -g node-gyp
npm config set python /usr/bin/python
PYTHON=python3 npm install
```

Please make sure you've followed everything in these instructions:
https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### Installing on Native Windows
1. Add Env Variable
```
PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD='true'
```
2. install python 2 and add python installation directory path to 'path' env variable.

3. Install node js

4. install Visual studio community edition with build tools. follow next steps. If mediasoup will not installed properly then modify Visual studio setup to add c++ and Node.js support.

5. add environmental variable
```
GYP_MSVS_VERSION=<vs-year>
for example, GYP_MSVS_VERSION=2019
```

6. add path to MSbuild.exe (which is present into vs installation folder) into 'path' variable
for example:``` C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\MSBuild\Current\Bin```

7. remove mediasoup and mediasoup-client from every package.json. This will enable us to add all the dependencies except mediasoup, this way we can save time while dealing with mediasoup.

8. rename 'postinstall' to 'postinstall-1' so that it will not run after installing dependencies.

9. install all dependences using npm.

10. add back all removed mediasoup and mediasoup-client dependencies.

11. Rerun npm command to install dependencies to install newly added mediasoup and mediasoup-client dependencies.

12. If error persists then check for typos in environment variables.

13. If you are on Windows, you can use docker-compose to start the scripts/docker-compose.yml file, or install mariadb and copy the login/pass and database name from docker-compose or .env.local -- you will need to create the database with the matching name, but you do not need to populate it

./start-db.sh only needs to be run once. If the docker image has stopped, start it again with:

```
    docker container start xrengine_db
```

15. Check your WSL Config for any incorrect networking settings. 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#network

### Installing on a Mac 

1. Go to the root and run 

```
   npm install
```

Or if you are on a M1 based Mac

(Recommended)
1) Duplicate the Terminal app, and configure it to run in Rosetta 
2) Run `npm install` in Rosetta Terminal

(Not recommended) 
```
   yarn install
```

This is because on Apple chips the node-darwin sometimes doesn't get installed properly and by using yarn it fixes the issue.

2. Have docker started in the background and then in the terminal type 

```
   npm run dev
```

This will open the mariaDB and SQL scripts on the docker and will start the servers 

3. To make sure your environment is set and running properly just go to https://localhost:3000/location/test and you should see the editor 

```
Note : Make sure you are on Node >= 16 and have docker running. 
```

### Troubleshooting Mac 

* If you find issues on your terminal that says that access-denied for user 'server@localhost' then you can use this command 

```
brew services stop mysql
```

* If you find issue on your terminal that says 'An unexpected error occurred: "expected workspace package' while using yarn then you can use this command in your terminal 

```
   yarn policies set-version 1.18.0
```

As yarn > 1.18 sometimes doesn't work properly with lerna. 


## Easy setup
If you are lucky, this will just work. However, you will may encounter some issues. Make sure you are running Node 16, and check your dependencies.

```
cd path/to/xrengine
npm install
npm run dev
```

This will automatically setup (if necessary) and run redis/mariadb docker containers, and XRengine client/server/game-server instances.

In a browser, navigate to https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test

The database seeding process creates a test empty location called 'test'. It can be navigated to by going to 'https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test'

As of this writing, the cert provided in the xrengine package for local use is not adequately signed. Browsers will throw up warnings about going to insecure pages. You should be able to tell the browser to ignore it, usually by clicking on some sort of 'advanced options' button or link and then something along the lines of 'go there anyway'.

Chrome sometimes does not show a clickable option on the warning. If so, just type ```badidea``` or ```thisisunsafe``` when on that page. You don't enter that into the address bar or into a text box, Chrome is just passively listening for those commands.

## Advanced Setup

If you want to setup XREngine docker instances, client, server, and/or game-server manually, follow these directions. The advanced setup is recommended for all users, in order to understand more about everything that going on.

### 1.  Install your dependencies 
```
cd path/to/xrengine
npm install
```

You should not need to use sudo in any case.

Error with mediasoup?https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### 2. Make sure you have a mysql database installed and running -- our recommendation is Mariadb. 
    
We've provided a docker container for easy setup:

```
cd scripts && sudo bash start-db.sh
```

This creates a Docker container of mariadb named xrengine_db. You must have docker installed on your machine for this script to work.
If you do not have Docker installed and do not wish to install it, you'll have to manually create a MariaDB server.
   
The default username is 'server', the default password is 'password', the default database name is 'xrengine', the default hostname is '127.0.0.1', and the default port is '3306'.
   
   Seeing errors connecting to the local DB? **Try shutting off your local firewall.**

### 3. Open a new tab and start the Agones sidecar in local mode

   ```
   cd scripts
   sudo bash start-agones.sh
   ```
   
   You can also go to vendor/agones/ and run
   
   ```./sdk-server.linux.amd64 --local```
   
   If you are using a Windows machine, run
   
   ```sdk-server.windows.amd64.exe --local```
   
   and for mac, run
   
   ```./sdk-server.darwin.amd64 --local```

### 4. Start the server in database seed mode

   Several tables in the database need to be seeded with default values.
   Run ```cd packages/server```, then run ```npm run dev-reinit-db```.
   After several seconds, there should be no more logging.
   Some of the final lines should read like this:
   ```Executing (default): SELECT 'id', 'name', 'sceneId', 'locationSettingsId', 'slugifiedName', 'maxUsersPerInstance', 'createdAt', 'updatedAt' FROM 'location' AS 'location' WHERE ('location'.'id' = '98cbcc30-fd2d-11ea-bc7c-cd4cac9a8d61') AND 'location'.'id' IN ('98cbcc30-fd2d-11ea-bc7c-cd4cac9a8d61'); Seeded```
   
    At this point, the database has been seeded. You can shut down the server with CTRL+C.

### 5. Local file server configuration
   If the .env.local file y ou have has the line 
   ```STORAGE_PROVIDER=local```
   then the scene editor will save components, models, scenes, etc. locally 
   (as opposed to storing them on S3). You will need to start a local server
   to serve these files, and make sure that .env.local has the line
   ```LOCAL_STORAGE_PROVIDER="localhost:8642"```.
   In a new tab, go to ```packages/server``` and run ```npm run serve-local-files```.
   This will start up ```http-server``` to serve files from ```packages/server/upload```
   on ```localhost:8642```.
   You may have to accept the invalid self-signed certificate for it in the browser;
   see 'Allow local file http-server connection with invalid certificate' below.

### 6. Open two/three separate tabs and start the API server, gameserverand client
   In /packages/server, run ```npm run dev``` which will launch the api server, game server and file server.
   If you are not using gameservers, you can instead run ```npm run dev-api-server``` in the api server.
   In the final tab, go to /packages/client and run ```npm run dev```.
   If you are on windows you need to use ```npm run dev-windows``` instead of ```npm run dev```.

### 7. In a browser, navigate to https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test
   The database seeding process creates a test empty location called 'test'.
   It can be navigated to by going to 'https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test'.
As of this writing, the cert provided in the XREngine package for local use is not adequately signed. You can create signed certificates and replace the default ones, but most developers just ignore the warnings. Browsers will throw up warnings about going to insecure pages. You should be able to tell the browser to ignore it, usually by clicking on some sort of 'advanced options' button or link and then something along the lines of 'go there anyway'.

### Admin System
You can administrate many features from the admin panel at https://localhost:3000/admin

How to make a user an admin:

Create a user at `/login`

To locate your User ID:
In Chrome Dev Tools, write `UserId`. This will display your User ID (As shown in attached screenshot). Copy this user Id as string run it as following command in shell:

`npm run make-user-admin -- --id={COPIED_USER_ID}`

Example:
`npm run make-user-admin -- --id=c06b0210-453e-11ec-afc3-c57a57eeb1ac`

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43248658/142813912-35f450e1-f012-4bdf-adfa-f0fa2816160f.png)


Method 1: 

1. Run `npm run make-user-admin -- --id=[USER ID]` 
2. TODO: Improve with email/phone ID support

Method 2: 
1. Look up in User table and change userRole to 'admin' 
2. Dev DB credentials can be found here: packages/ops/docker-compose-local.yml#L42
3. Suggested: beekeeperstudio.io

Test user Admin privileges by going to `/admin`

Commit message:

add docker quickstart to install docs

tutorial/01-installation.md, after:

Getting up and running requires just a few steps, but this can be tricky, depending on your platform and current environment. Please follow the directions for your environment.

# All environments

### First, clone the repository
`git clone https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine --depth 1`

### Ensure you are on Node 16 or above

You **must** have Node 16 or above installed.

NVM can be a useful tool for this https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm

Before running the engine, please check `node --version`
If you are using a node version below 16, please update or nothing will work. You will know you are having issues if you try to install at root and are getting dependency errors.

### Docker is your friend

You don't need to use Docker, but it will make your life much easier.
You can get it [here](https://docs.docker.com/).
If you don't wish to use Docker, you will need to setup mariadb and redis on your machine. You can find credentials in `xrengine/scripts/docker-compose.yml`

You can quickstart locally using docker, if you don't have node installed or just want to test the latest.

``` bash
## Build the image
docker build --tag xrengine .

## Run the image (deletes itself when you close it)
docker run -d --rm --name server -e "MYSQL_URL=mysql://server:password@db:3306/xrengine" -p "3030:3030"  xrengine

## Stop the server
docker stop server
```

### Mediasoup is a powerful beast you must tame
The vast majority of people get stuck on the mediasoup installation because it requires C++ source code to be compiled on your machine, which requires node-gyp and python and other dependencies.

*It is extremely important that you refer to these instructions before continuing*
https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### Installing on Windows with WSL2
Note: **You must have WSL2 installed for these instructions to work**

First, open a wsl prompt. Then type these commands:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install build-essential
npm install -g node-gyp
npm config set python /usr/bin/python
PYTHON=python3 npm install
```

Please make sure you've followed everything in these instructions:
https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### Installing on Native Windows
1. Add Env Variable
```
PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD='true'
```
2. install python 2 and add python installation directory path to 'path' env variable.

3. Install node js

4. install Visual studio community edition with build tools. follow next steps. If mediasoup will not installed properly then modify Visual studio setup to add c++ and Node.js support.

5. add environmental variable
```
GYP_MSVS_VERSION=<vs-year>
for example, GYP_MSVS_VERSION=2019
```

6. add path to MSbuild.exe (which is present into vs installation folder) into 'path' variable
for example:``` C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\MSBuild\Current\Bin```

7. remove mediasoup and mediasoup-client from every package.json. This will enable us to add all the dependencies except mediasoup, this way we can save time while dealing with mediasoup.

8. rename 'postinstall' to 'postinstall-1' so that it will not run after installing dependencies.

9. install all dependences using npm.

10. add back all removed mediasoup and mediasoup-client dependencies.

11. Rerun npm command to install dependencies to install newly added mediasoup and mediasoup-client dependencies.

12. If error persists then check for typos in environment variables.

13. If you are on Windows, you can use docker-compose to start the scripts/docker-compose.yml file, or install mariadb and copy the login/pass and database name from docker-compose or .env.local -- you will need to create the database with the matching name, but you do not need to populate it

./start-db.sh only needs to be run once. If the docker image has stopped, start it again with:

```
    docker container start xrengine_db
```

15. Check your WSL Config for any incorrect networking settings. 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#network

### Installing on a Mac 

1. Go to the root and run 

```
   npm install
```

Or if you are on a M1 based Mac

(Recommended)
1) Duplicate the Terminal app, and configure it to run in Rosetta 
2) Run `npm install` in Rosetta Terminal

(Not recommended) 
```
   yarn install
```

This is because on Apple chips the node-darwin sometimes doesn't get installed properly and by using yarn it fixes the issue.

2. Have docker started in the background and then in the terminal type 

```
   npm run dev
```

This will open the mariaDB and SQL scripts on the docker and will start the servers 

3. To make sure your environment is set and running properly just go to https://localhost:3000/location/test and you should see the editor 

```
Note : Make sure you are on Node >= 16 and have docker running. 
```

### Troubleshooting Mac 

* If you find issues on your terminal that says that access-denied for user 'server@localhost' then you can use this command 

```
brew services stop mysql
```

* If you find issue on your terminal that says 'An unexpected error occurred: "expected workspace package' while using yarn then you can use this command in your terminal 

```
   yarn policies set-version 1.18.0
```

As yarn > 1.18 sometimes doesn't work properly with lerna. 


## Easy setup
If you are lucky, this will just work. However, you will may encounter some issues. Make sure you are running Node 16, and check your dependencies.

```
cd path/to/xrengine
npm install
npm run dev
```

This will automatically setup (if necessary) and run redis/mariadb docker containers, and XRengine client/server/game-server instances.

In a browser, navigate to https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test

The database seeding process creates a test empty location called 'test'. It can be navigated to by going to 'https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test'

As of this writing, the cert provided in the xrengine package for local use is not adequately signed. Browsers will throw up warnings about going to insecure pages. You should be able to tell the browser to ignore it, usually by clicking on some sort of 'advanced options' button or link and then something along the lines of 'go there anyway'.

Chrome sometimes does not show a clickable option on the warning. If so, just type ```badidea``` or ```thisisunsafe``` when on that page. You don't enter that into the address bar or into a text box, Chrome is just passively listening for those commands.

## Advanced Setup

If you want to setup XREngine docker instances, client, server, and/or game-server manually, follow these directions. The advanced setup is recommended for all users, in order to understand more about everything that going on.

### 1.  Install your dependencies 
```
cd path/to/xrengine
npm install
```

You should not need to use sudo in any case.

Error with mediasoup?https://mediasoup.org/documentation/v3/mediasoup/installation/

### 2. Make sure you have a mysql database installed and running -- our recommendation is Mariadb. 
    
We've provided a docker container for easy setup:

```
cd scripts && sudo bash start-db.sh
```

This creates a Docker container of mariadb named xrengine_db. You must have docker installed on your machine for this script to work.
If you do not have Docker installed and do not wish to install it, you'll have to manually create a MariaDB server.
   
The default username is 'server', the default password is 'password', the default database name is 'xrengine', the default hostname is '127.0.0.1', and the default port is '3306'.
   
   Seeing errors connecting to the local DB? **Try shutting off your local firewall.**

### 3. Open a new tab and start the Agones sidecar in local mode

   ```
   cd scripts
   sudo bash start-agones.sh
   ```
   
   You can also go to vendor/agones/ and run
   
   ```./sdk-server.linux.amd64 --local```
   
   If you are using a Windows machine, run
   
   ```sdk-server.windows.amd64.exe --local```
   
   and for mac, run
   
   ```./sdk-server.darwin.amd64 --local```

### 4. Start the server in database seed mode

   Several tables in the database need to be seeded with default values.
   Run ```cd packages/server```, then run ```npm run dev-reinit-db```.
   After several seconds, there should be no more logging.
   Some of the final lines should read like this:
   ```Executing (default): SELECT 'id', 'name', 'sceneId', 'locationSettingsId', 'slugifiedName', 'maxUsersPerInstance', 'createdAt', 'updatedAt' FROM 'location' AS 'location' WHERE ('location'.'id' = '98cbcc30-fd2d-11ea-bc7c-cd4cac9a8d61') AND 'location'.'id' IN ('98cbcc30-fd2d-11ea-bc7c-cd4cac9a8d61'); Seeded```
   
    At this point, the database has been seeded. You can shut down the server with CTRL+C.

### 5. Local file server configuration
   If the .env.local file y ou have has the line 
   ```STORAGE_PROVIDER=local```
   then the scene editor will save components, models, scenes, etc. locally 
   (as opposed to storing them on S3). You will need to start a local server
   to serve these files, and make sure that .env.local has the line
   ```LOCAL_STORAGE_PROVIDER="localhost:8642"```.
   In a new tab, go to ```packages/server``` and run ```npm run serve-local-files```.
   This will start up ```http-server``` to serve files from ```packages/server/upload```
   on ```localhost:8642```.
   You may have to accept the invalid self-signed certificate for it in the browser;
   see 'Allow local file http-server connection with invalid certificate' below.

### 6. Open two/three separate tabs and start the API server, gameserverand client
   In /packages/server, run ```npm run dev``` which will launch the api server, game server and file server.
   If you are not using gameservers, you can instead run ```npm run dev-api-server``` in the api server.
   In the final tab, go to /packages/client and run ```npm run dev```.
   If you are on windows you need to use ```npm run dev-windows``` instead of ```npm run dev```.

### 7. In a browser, navigate to https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test
   The database seeding process creates a test empty location called 'test'.
   It can be navigated to by going to 'https://127.0.0.1:3000/location/test'.
As of this writing, the cert provided in the XREngine package for local use is not adequately signed. You can create signed certificates and replace the default ones, but most developers just ignore the warnings. Browsers will throw up warnings about going to insecure pages. You should be able to tell the browser to ignore it, usually by clicking on some sort of 'advanced options' button or link and then something along the lines of 'go there anyway'.

### Admin System
You can administrate many features from the admin panel at https://localhost:3000/admin

How to make a user an admin:

Create a user at `/login`

To locate your User ID:
In Chrome Dev Tools, write `UserId`. This will display your User ID (As shown in attached screenshot). Copy this user Id as string run it as following command in shell:

`npm run make-user-admin -- --id={COPIED_USER_ID}`

Example:
`npm run make-user-admin -- --id=c06b0210-453e-11ec-afc3-c57a57eeb1ac`

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43248658/142813912-35f450e1-f012-4bdf-adfa-f0fa2816160f.png)


Method 1: 

1. Run `npm run make-user-admin -- --id=[USER ID]` 
2. TODO: Improve with email/phone ID support

Method 2: 
1. Look up in User table and change userRole to 'admin' 
2. Dev DB credentials can be found here: packages/ops/docker-compose-local.yml#L42
3. Suggested: beekeeperstudio.io

Test user Admin privileges by going to `/admin`
