README.md, before:


![xrengine](https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine/raw/dev/xrengine%20black.png)

**Your own sandbox in the Metaverse. Take what you need, or launch the full stack.**

- Includes a self-deployable platform, UI, worlds, avatars, and games
- Fully customizable for any kind of game, social experience, event or spatial web app
- User management, avatars and inventory with optional blockchain integration (see our Blockchain-in-a-Box repo)
- Social features like chat, groups, friends, blocking and moderation
- Complete world editing and administration
- 2D, 3D and XR Avatars with full inverse kinematics and facial expressions
- Fully networked physics using PhysX compiled to wasm
- Voice and video over WebRTC
- Instant login and location sharing with phone number or email
- Modular- Use the engine, server, client, editor and scalable devops infrastructure as needed
- OAuth login with Facebook, Google, Steam, Github or instant login with email or phone
- WebGL client deployable to iOS, Android and desktop
- Free, open source, MIT and Apache 2.0-licensed

## Demo
We have better demos coming, but for now you can jump around this CC0 apartment we got from Sketchfab:
https://app.theoverlay.io/location/apartment

## Getting Started
Installation instructions are here:
https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine/wiki/Installation

## Let's build it together

### [Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/Tb4MT4TTjH)  [![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/692672143053422678.svg)](https://discord.gg/Tb4MT4TTjH) 

### [Sponsorship](https://opencollective.com/xrfoundation/tiers/badge.svg)

Commit message:

Updated README.md with new info.

README.md, after:


![xrengine](https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine/raw/dev/xrengine%20black.png)

**Your own sandbox in the Metaverse. Take what you need, or launch the full stack.**

- Includes a self-deployable platform, UI, worlds, avatars, and games
- Fully customizable for any kind of game, social experience, event or spatial web app
- User management, avatars and inventory with optional blockchain integration (see our Blockchain-in-a-Box repo)
- Social features like chat, groups, friends, blocking and moderation
- Complete world editing and administration
- 2D, 3D and XR Avatars with full inverse kinematics and facial expressions
- Fully networked physics using PhysX compiled to wasm
- Voice and video over WebRTC
- Instant login and location sharing with phone number or email
- Modular- Use the engine, server, client, editor and scalable devops infrastructure as needed
- OAuth login with Facebook, Google, Steam, Github or instant login with email or phone
- WebGL client deployable to iOS, Android and desktop
- Free, open source, MIT and Apache 2.0-licensed

## Demo
We have better demos coming, but for now you can jump around this CC0 apartment we got from Sketchfab:
https://app.theoverlay.io/location/apartment

## Getting Started
A lot has changed during development, and our monorepo has gotten quite large. To avoid cloning the entire thing, use this command:
```
git clone -–depth 1 https://github.com/xrfoundation/xrengine
```

Installation instructions are here:
https://github.com/XRFoundation/XREngine/wiki/Installation

## Let's build it together
We believe that projects like this are extremely complex and difficult, and can only be built when large groups of people work together, out in the open. If you believe that your calling is to build a free, open network that everyone, everywhere can get value from, then you are welcome in our community, and we'll do our best to get you set up.

We are always hiring talented people who want to be leaders in what is to come. Inquire with anyone who seems like they know what's going on and they'll help you find who you need to talk to.

### [Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/Tb4MT4TTjH)  [![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/692672143053422678.svg)](https://discord.gg/Tb4MT4TTjH)

### [Sponsorship](https://opencollective.com/xrfoundation/tiers/badge.svg)
